This is Deborah Beale, and I am interviewing Dr.
David Norton on the history of the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. The date is June
12, 1984. Are you ready to go ahead and start? And
I'd like to start with just a little background.
Let's start with your education and how you came to
come here. OK. Let's see. You want to start at the
college level of education? I came to A&M in 1958.
as a student in mechanical engineering and did an
ME, a bachelor of science, and then a master's of
science. I graduated in 63
and then went to Purdue and did a PhD in mechanical
engineering and specialized in propulsion.
Then, having been commissioned here, I was then
ready for active duty. So I did active duty in the
Ordnance Corps and was eventually assigned to the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena,
California on my tour of active duty after an
officer's basic in the East Coast. Then I was out
there two years. And then in January of 1970, I took
an appointment here as an assistant professor in
the aerospace engineering department. So I
stayed in that capacity until January of 1982,
basically. And which time I came over here and
began as an assistant director for what was then
called program. and am now the assistant director
of research. When did you first become aware of
Tunis? Probably my second day here. As a student or
as a... No, not really as a student at all.
Even my graduate research days
in the early 60s, late 50s, TEAS, as you'll be
finding out, was not as pervasive an influence as
it is today in engineering research. For example,
the mechanical engineering department really
didn't interface a great deal with engineering
department section, although a few faculty had
done work through them and with them during the war
and after. They operated the mechanical
engineering department separately and worked
out assistantships and fellowships separately
and didn't really have much of a research program.
As a matter of fact, the reason many of the colleges
didn't have a real research program were only
doing a very nominal amount of graduate work. and
the need for funded research was not as large as it
is today. So, it just really wasn't that pervasive
of a factor. What was your first project through
TEAS? Well, the excitement that brought me here,
as opposed to the other places I was looking at, was
the Space Shuttle. Professor Al Kronk, who was the
department head at that time, in the interview
process indicated to me that he had been asked by
Johnson Spacecraft Center to develop capability
in dealing with shuttle problems. And
specifically, they had problems with
propulsion, which was my specialty. So the offer
to get involved and begin to do research on space
shuttles was my inducement to come here because
that was a major new exciting program that had all
the disciplines that I was interested in going
with it and it was yet had an applied side that was
appealing to me that I'd be able to see this thing
designed, developed, flown over the years. So
that's the reason I came and that's the first
research project. It was, I was under contract in
NASA basically continuously for the next 12 years
on this mission. I don't know if this is directly
related to the propulsion, but the wind tunnel was
used for that. Do you know what it was used for
immediately before that? Before that major
relationship was established between JSC and our
air department, I think it was used to store hay.
There was a period of time where it was basically
unused or used sporadically at best in the 60s. As
far as I could tell, It was basically unused for a
period of time until the late 60s. In 69, it took
some aid of NASA, old equipment, old recorder, old
stuff, and some people that were sent up here to
help us get modernized from JSC, a guy named Ray
Moore.
We had a lot of help from them in trying to get us
developed as a facility where they could come do
some testing and some evaluation that they would
otherwise have to go to one of the major NASA
centers, Langley or Ames, or hire down at one of the
contractors, where they wouldn't really be a
party to the work. So they could actually come in
the lab and turn their roller shirt sleeves up, get
in there and feel what was going on in a friendly,
cooperative environment. And that's what they
were looking for to establish here, and they did.
change from director of programs to director of
research. Was that a real change in the jobs? No, it
was not. It was a change or a different
recognition, I think, in that the research, the
purpose of engineering firm station is research.
It's not business. It's not research. And this, in
essence, made it clear that this was, I was
interested in a research position that led to, you
know, the main heartbeat. I wasn't a peripheral I
wasn't in anything else but Missouri. What is your
job now? What do you do? My job and most of the jobs I
already have is what I want it to be, basically.
What I want it to be is developing the research
potential of TEAS and Texas A&M for the benefit of
the state. I'm very clear about that role. In my
opinion, the role is to make the infrastructure,
the technical infrastructure of Texas be as
strong as possible. And at the same time, to
develop that in the sense of research capability
and technical manpower. The technical manpower
we developed basically by providing assistance
to graduate students through work, not through
gifts, through work and assistantship and buying
millions of dollars of equipment that is used for
research but also is used to teach at the graduate
and senior level of the undergraduate program. So
in that way we developed the capabilities and the
technical manpower pool. And we also take all this
intellect that's here and make it, otherwise it's
not available, make it available to the benefit of
the state.
To do that, you have to have a large enough pool that
you have a group that can do almost anything. And
when the state has a need, you are simply the
conduit into that pool to apply it. And then when
that need goes away, you tap into another part of
the pool for another problem. You have to have this
pool, and that takes a lot of work and support to
keep that pool of 400 or 500 engineers going here,
keep them bubbling up and exciting the students
and developing their capabilities so that
they're available. If you only had 100, you
wouldn't be able to serve that role. You wouldn't
be able to say, whatever the problem is, we have the
talent. It takes this level of a group to keep the
process going. How did you first get involved in
administration of TEAS? Skip Porter called me. He
said, I want you to be assistant director. I told
him no twice. Finally, I told him yes. We started
out on a half-time basis, a three-quarter time
basis, and finally a full-time basis. Because I
had other things that I was doing in Arrow. I was now
a full professor over there, traveling
internationally in my own research. I developed
an environmental aerodynamics laboratory, and
we were starting to do three, four hundred
thousand dollars worth of research, and junior
faculty and graduate students. Things were
really bubbling over there. It was for some
reluctance that I consider that, because I'm by no
stretch of imagination, at least initially
configured for administrative work. My
strengths have always been the technical,
personal sort of commitment, as opposed to
getting other people to do things, but you can
learn some of the skills. When did you get the
environmental aerodynamics portion? No, it
wasn't before. Environmental aerodynamics
later. OK. OK, at this point, someplace around in
the mid, another element of the story, my personal
story, is about the mid-'70s, the enrollment of
aerospace engineering, as an example, went from
100, say, like 200 freshmen in the fall of 72 to like
60 freshmen in the fall of 73. So there was a
precipitous step function in enrollment. And in
order to maintain the faculty, there were about
nine or 10 at that time, active full-time faculty,
it was clear that we were going to have to diversify
and go heavily into research instead of being
quarter-time research, be pre-quarter-time
research. And those of us that looked around and
said, well, where is the money? Where are we going
to do that? We all did our own thing individually
sought out other areas, or broaden their own
areas. And one of the things I looked at was
something called environmental aerodynamics,
which is not propulsion. It is the flow of wind and
its effect on man, buildings, and the sea, and
offshore platforms, things like that. And
at that time, that was something that was being
developed nationwide. I went to Colorado State
for eight weeks to where the United States' most
prestigious guy is named Cermak. I spent eight
weeks with him learning this branch of
engineering. I brought that back here and over the
next several years developed that as an area of
study. I developed two courses, graduate courses
and an area of research. So I did a great deal of
that, in addition to whatever little bits of NASA
work that was still to be done. Was this the group
that was involved in the oil, or were you involved
in the oil spill research? No. Well, yes, I have
been involved in oil spill research, but not from
the point of view of Roy Hand, who goes out when
there's an oil spill and goes out and tries to
analyze the situation and stuff like that. My
involvement has been in terms of the fluid
mechanics of how you skim it off the water. Well,
that's the research that was done in the mid-'70s,
right? Mm-hmm, right. And it developed a training
program for them? Mm-hmm, eventually, yes,
right. Did that start with the beginning of that
lab? No, that lab was created, I think, about 1980.
No, we were just loosely associated with people
around the campus that were doing work in oil
spill, and there was people in civil engineering,
myself and Arrow and other people, and that was one
of those opportunities that came along that I got
involved with about two years. Whose brainchild
was that? I don't know, it may go back to, I know
Charlie Rodenberger was involved with a contract
with the Department of Transportation. And it
involved the Coast Guard, in which they were
trying to find mechanisms to contain oil spill to
sea, especially when there were the current.
Because the booms that they had, the oil would just
go unneeded, pile up against one side and get so
deep and then go unneeded. So they were looking for
ways to combat that tendency. And that's the kind
of research that at least I was involved in. In the
early and mid-'70s with the energy crisis, did
that change the direction of your research? Not so
much, except that one of the areas of research that
I began to look at was generation of wind power by
wind. So I added that into the things that we were
doing in my lectures and courses. So I brought in
that sense, but I didn't, I wasn't never just
fundamentally in energy research. Did money for
that type of thing become more readily available
at that point? Uh, sure. And many, many people
around the campus, like in chemical engineering
and other places, lacked on to that, and that
concept didn't get involved in a great deal of
research. Everything from oil shales and all
kinds of things. But I never personally got
involved, not too much. But that was the time in
which people began to do that, to get some of that
Department of Energy money. Did you find that with
the late 70s, when the popularity of the space
program went downhill, was it harder to get money
for your research? Sure. That's the reason why I
was still doing work for them. It was not something
that would be a full-time research activity, and
so I needed to develop a parallel. Is that the same
reason they're dropping students? Yeah, right.
So there wasn't that much teaching. So... Not only
did you have trouble getting money, but you didn't
have the students as well? That's right. Okay. So
you really had... You know, there was... Nobody
would fire you, but on the other hand, you had a
sense to keep the team together. And now we have...
Well, we now have the largest aerospace
engineering department in the country. We have
something like 700 students, which is by far and
away. We were down to like 100 students total. But
we had the same teams there. And they're there
because when the time came, we knew what to do to
keep ourselves there. And so the role of playing
back and forth between research and teaching and
engineering, which is cyclical, is absolutely
critical. If you don't have that flexibility,
you're not going to make too many perturbations in
this field. The aerospace is coming back. Oh,
yeah. It's here. When did this new wave start?
Well, it really started like a year or two after the
big low. We've been plotting a curve. It's been
going like that ever since. It's just been 10% per
year or 20% per year, and it's just been going,
going, going. What do you think precipitated
that? Well, I think the next thing that
Historically, it was the space shuttle. In 1969,
we had landing on the moon, and we had the rest of the
Apollo. And the Apollo came, and that was, oh,
we're on the moon again. It just lost interest.
Then we had a gap there. And meanwhile, in 1969, we
started working on the shuttle. And it did its
first flights in the mid-1974 or 75, I guess. so
that was the next big big thing so about 75 the
shuttle then they dropped tested it off the 747 and
they did this they did that so that's uh begin to
reawaken the american public a little bit but that
and i think other things uh i think
reconsideration of what we would do in defense,
which is, of course, a big implore of aerospace
people.
Pretty good time as far as the airlines were
concerned, and major programs to develop the 757
and the 767. There was a number of little things
that kept things parking alone. Who do you deal
with as an administrator inside the system,
inside the teams? That's the answer I'm getting
from everybody. No, primarily it would be TASE,
N-T-A-M-U, and in some cases other universities
in the system, Prairie View, and also other
research entities that are in this stage around
the nation. How about outside the system? Who do
you usually meet with? Well, we meet with the
University of Texas at Arlington. I mean, this
year I probably had four or five meetings with the
University of Texas at Austin in terms of the water
research and other things that we're trying to
coordinate, you know, the feeling of cooperation
with UT. Is that a new feeling? What? Is that a
feeling of cooperation new? Yeah, it was, you
know, right, right, fairly new. The last few
years? The last two years. I think it's an impetus
of the posture that the chancellors
take. Do you deal with them in the state or national
legislature? Yeah, we have the speaker of the
house, Texas House here, and a couple of
representatives. So yeah, we deal with this.
We're a state agency. A lot of things happen over
here that don't necessarily go through the
university, so people come here and see the
research. I know Jane Armstrong is the liaison.
Yeah, she is our primary liaison. So are you the
liaison with most of the other academic
institutions? Yes. That would be right. When it
comes to research and engineering research,
probably that would be more what I would be doing
when it comes to legislature or other Chamber of
Commerce, other kinds of liaison that we want to
build, Jane just generally is there. But we don't
have any written instructions on that. How have
changes in administration changed the way TEAS
functions from your viewpoint?
Well, first place, I came here when Fred Benson was
in charge of most everything. So there was no
changes for a decade or so. Between 1970 and 1978 or
not, there were no changes. Then we had our big new
organization and
things have been sort of in a turmoil in terms of
that ever since. That really has no effect in some
senses, or it has all the effect. It just depends
how much you want to watch it.
I think we've been able to be as effective as we are
because we've tried not to concentrate on it too
much. We have a little expression we use around
here. We like to just keep laying bricks. Let
everybody else worry about it, but we just want to
put another brick down. So that's really been what
I've, while all those things have been happening,
my feeling is that we just ought to continue to get
opportunities to do research and continue to
identify those who do the research and just keep
our relationships at a high level. The funding
agency is keeping going. Have there been any
particular points in your memory, too, that have
been some low points?
when this broke down or was threatened? Well, I
would say no.
It's been very general, very high plane of
professional activity over here all the way
through. At least certainly my dealings with
Skidport. So I haven't had the feeling, maybe a
little lately,
that we weren't able to take advantage of all the
opportunities we could because things aren't
settled in the administration. But it's factors
external that's really keeping who we see dead
ends because you can't get decisions or people are
in place. You can't hire the people you want to
because the apartment is not there, et cetera, et
cetera. So those kind of things, but not as far as us
within TEAS. We feel like that. There's
plenty
of opportunities to take advantage of it if the
rest of the people want to. How much influence has
the Research Foundation had on your work? The
Research Foundation, I have a long history with
the Research Foundation. I bet if you went over
there you'd find that I've had more contracts with
the Research Foundation than any researcher
on campus. As a researcher dealing with the
Research Foundation, although there have been
minor frustrations, I've always felt that they
were trying to help the researcher and
there were such good people out there. What is not
commonly understood by the faculty is that
Research Foundation is indeed not an entity of the
Texas A&M University System and employs no
professional research faculty and is indeed a
place to make things easier by verging on the fact
that it's not part of Texas A&M. And I think if you
would ask a typical new faculty member that he
thinks he works for the Research Foundation and I
think that they try to make them,
not directly, but indirectly. And that causes
some confusion as to who they report to, who's
responsible for their political tenure, who are
the people, indeed, that
they should look to for their long-term support
group. So in that sense, it's confusing to find
out. And
that's not a plus. On the other side, there are
times when they handle kind of details that really
nobody wants to get involved with. People want to
take the time complying with OSHA and complying
with all the federal regulations that apply to a
contract and all the bookkeeping and such. They
provide a valuable service.
Were
most of your contracts through them also
involving teams? Sure, because any research I did
involved teams. The contract would usually read,
uh, the Research Foundation checks this contract
and is named the Texas Engineering Experiment
Station as the entity who will do the research. And
the Texas Engineering Experiment Station is
named Dr. Norton as the principal investigator.
So every bit of research that I've ever done over
the last 15 years has always been the engineering
term extension. Now, only in the last few years has
it been possible to do contracts directly with the
engineering term extension without the research
foundation involved at all. But I've always been a
teaser for it. I've always gotten two or three
paychecks, different ones. So, what is the
difference between teams and researchers? Well,
the Research Foundation is a not-for-profit,
arm's length corporation that was set up to
circumvent purchasing regulations in the state
of Texas. for the purpose of doing,
managing, in a fiscal sense, project accounting,
which the university does not have. They don't
have a project accounting system. So it was
convenient for the university and everybody to
invent this organization to do project
accounting, to do purchasing, to do certain
things like that. And it has No people except
bookkeepers and lawyers.
So in this far, it is useful to use them. And it's
useful to use them. Oh, the other third and fourth
thing was the university doesn't have a means to
retain overhead on federal contracts.
So they have no way of paying for the bookkeeping
system. But the Research Foundation can. So they
keep some of the overhead. to do the bookkeeping.
The university wouldn't be able to because they
had to give all the overhead back. So it made sense
then for them to create, or us to create, this
bookkeeping outfit that could absorb a little of
the overhead to pay for itself. And then whatever
was left over of the overhead, we shipped back to
Austin. And they put in the general revenue. So it
made sense in a couple of ways. It doesn't
necessarily make the same sense in your
interpretation. But we're here as a team, all our
sister agencies, the TAs and the TTs, and the KTs
and the TKFs. And if that's the common will, then
we'll be glad to participate. But it's just
something of convenience. It has no real A&M
significance. It's not really a part of Texas A&M
or Texas A&M. So has TEAS established some kind of
system? Sure. Always had to. See, the Research
Foundation does no state contracts. Not allowed
to. So if you have a state contract with another
agency, how do you do it? Well, you have to have your
own book. We've always had it now. And we always
send federal contracts for them. We always do the
state contracts. The industrial contracts, we do
about 50-50 when we think it makes sense. It
doesn't require a lot of guaranteeing of this and
that. We do them through here, right through our
own shop. Good Lord, you got a shop. And it works out
fine. When it's complicated and it needs
something that they provide, then we send it over
there. That explains a lot that I hadn't
understood. And I don't think a lot of people
understand. No. No. Almost nobody understands
it.
There were great changes
in the 60s in terms of the building of the nuclear
science center, the data processing center, and
that type of thing. Did you see a lot of changes in
the types of research that were going on in the 60s
or 70s? Well, I wasn't here in the 60s, so I can't...
No, in the 70s, I'm talking about. Okay. Any spurts
of the same rapid change, you had the shuttle come
in and... Yeah, well, that's just peculiar to my
department. What was happening in the 60s is the
leadership of a few really brave guys. We were...
establishing capabilities at A&M that led us to be
able to really operate in the 70s. Things like the
Cyclotron, things like the NICU Science Center,
things like, many things if you look around now and
wonder where they got started, they got started
here. And I'm sure you've talked to Dr. Capoon and
Mark Will and Fred Benson. Those guys, and Rudder,
look for ways to progress and establish
capabilities. We built a building over here, the
Space Research Center, the T building, NASA
funds. Things like that were happening and we took
a lot of risks and built a lot of facilities. Most of
them worked out, some of them didn't. That's what I
look back and think I see there is without much
research capability, Before 1965, there really
wasn't any research done here. Not that there
wasn't some good research done, but the volume
was. You could say that the research really didn't
get started until then.
So people were putting into place facilities and
capabilities and programs that a university that
didn't have a lot of traditional research could
grab a hold of and begin to have a reason to do this.
Those were very important steps in my mind, very
far-reaching,
brave steps to take. So by the time you got here, the
facility was already here? There was a wind
tunnel. Even though it wasn't active, it was
there. There was a nuclear science center, and
there was all these things here that had been
constructed and built basically on
on the feeling that would be important. Maybe they
couldn't justify it all the way by the people that
were here at the time. And certainly, you can't
justify building a wind tunnel when you don't have
an aerospace engineering department. But
basically, that's what happened. Gilchrist
built that wind tunnel. And everybody said, what a
folly. And it was a folly for a long time. But it has
also been a great source visitors and research and
all kinds of activities that have helped make the
repetition of A&E. What do you think that TEAS
balances in terms of the testing services and the
type of research? It's often asked, and I think
everybody that asks it is really looking to
confirm what they really believe about TEAS.
First of all, you've got to understand that TEAS is
really just about five or ten people up here.
Everybody else is out there in the department. So
when you say, what you're really asking is what do
the faculty of Texas, of the College of
Engineering and the other associated
departments really do? That's what you're really
asking. Through TEAS. Through TEAS, right. has
$1.05 that they use to direct the program. The
other four-fifths comes from the blood, sweat,
and tears of the individual faculty member who go
to Washington and say, I'm good. I'm going to do
this research. You're going to fund me. And they
take that proposal and send it around the country.
And all his competitors mark it up. And if he wins
the competition, he brings it back. So teeth
didn't tell him what to do. He just did it, and we're
the vehicle through which he does it. So when you
say tease research, what you're really saying is,
what do the faculty members, what do College of
Engineering do? OK, now let's answer that
question. They do whatever their conscience
dictates and whatever they perceive that the
administration would reward.
There is an opportunity for those who feel they
make contributions to this state, they certainly
can mark one. If it involves some testing, that's
fine.
Frankly, testing always is a lower order on the
economic research chain because it's usually
dollars received for dollars of actual value
delivered. If you do testing You propose
something, I'll do $100 worth of testing, and you
have to do $100 worth of testing. There isn't any
fat. It's just work. Yeah. It's just work. So
normally, a mature faculty member won't get
involved in too much testing, because he doesn't
have any way to pay for the graduate students that
he wants to educate. And how do graduate students
get educated in engineering? By the research
contract that they bring in. There is no other
mechanism. You're getting paid through some sort
of assistantship, I guess, by the fact you're
working. That opportunity to do that work was
provided by some faculty member having the
opportunity to do some research. That's the same
way it works for all 300 or 400 engineering
students. People get contracts. And they make the
contract read in such a way that they can hire some
graduate students. That's how they get educated.
But that's the process. And doing the testing
doesn't add to that process. So yes, there is
testing. And generally what happens is we have
non-faculty people doing the testing because we
would like to maintain a service level to the
industry in Texas and keep that connection going.
That's our business. But generally, that's
occupied. We have the engineering test lab.
Charlie Neely has done that for 30 years, and
before him, 20 years, other people did it. They
test fans. It's one of the two places in the United
States where you can test a fan to certify that it
meets certain standards.
That doesn't necessarily have a large
educational value. They do it at the annex, but the
industry sure loved it. They said, don't go away.
We need it. So there's 100 or so industries that
deal with Texas A&M. Every year, they say, Texas
A&M hangs a moon. They do this work for us. But it's a
low-level activity. It's self-supporting.
Self-supporting activity? Fine. It's not
costly. Yeah, right. And a lot of goodwill. And
there's other activities. About half of the work
that's done in the wind tunnel is in that category.
And we have some graduate students, some co-ops,
and Oren Nix, who's a non-faculty, but very
dedicated, bright guy. They do that work. Fine.
The other half of the time, It's research work from
the faculty in the Department of Aero and ME, et
cetera. I don't know if I've diverged off the
question, but that is indeed the way it's done. So
testing is done, but it's generally done by
non-faculty people, because the faculty
understands that there's no great glory in it, and
there's no good way to get a lot of money in it. I know
the data processing center is now being
separated. Right, there's another example. Why
was that separated and other services not? Okay,
let me tell you how that worked.
When TEAS
has certain funds, which are very small, as you
know, compared to the Our state budget compared to
the system-wide budget is like 180.
We get 180 of the state funds. But the funds that we
get are fairly flexible. They don't say, you have
to do this piece of testing with it. They just say,
go make good research happen. So we're in a
position that occasionally, risks can be taken
with no detrimental effects in terms of
reportability. In 1958, when the question of who
and how was going to take the risk on this computer
craft, it was only the engineering experiment
station that stood up and said, gee, maybe we can
help. So for the next 25 years, we helped. The way we
help, we will start something, but it has to pay for
itself. So we were doing a $6 million a year
operation to pay for out of research, out of fees
generated by the administrative side, out of fees
generated by the university to pay for computing
for students. Of course, they weren't paying
much. They were paying like $200,000 a year out of a
$6 million budget. But the attitude of the faculty
is always, Just like your chalk is free when you go
in the classroom, just like your paper is in the
cupboard, computing ought to be free. And we all
know that's impossible. But it is also very
difficult for a faculty member to come up with hard
cash to pay for his computer. So basically what
happens, when something gets to be successful to
the point where a large number of faculty feel it is
part of the daily conduct of their business, they
want the university take it over and make it free to
them. And that's what they did. Now what the
university might do to make it free to them is they
take money from somebody else because they only
got so much money. They will maybe take part of your
operating expenses away from your department or
they'll take away from some other fund. and it
won't be there, and then they'll make it for you.
Somebody else over here, if they can figure it out,
should realize he got robbed to make it free. He's
using it, too. Well, of course, he's using it, too,
but he got robbed more than he's using it. Right.
Okay, so that's what generated it. That's also
what happened in the cyclotron. The engineering
experimentation started, got it going. Physics
got heavily involved when it thought it was neat,
but didn't want to pay the fees. So they say,
university, take this over so it's free. So they
did. So that's our job. That's part of our job, is to
introduce new technologies into the mainstream.
We keep going up trying to find things like that and
try to make it successful. And when it's
successful, then the university would say, gee,
we better have made this free. They'd take it over,
and we'd make something else. It's a great
process. So it frees up your money. Sure. We don't
want to operate those damn things. They're a drain
on us. God, I didn't take constant management,
constant problems. I'd love to give that away.
Do you feel the focus of TEAS has changed at all
since you started here? Since I was a faculty
member? Yeah, I think it has somewhat. I think
there's been an increased recognition of the role
that the engineering experiment station could
play in the development of the state. It wasn't so
apparent in the 70s because we were just moving
along at all. The state economy was just on a roll.
But as the end of the 70s came along, the bloom was
off the rose a little bit. People began to ask, all
right, when this oil money runs out,
how have we spent that money to do anything lasting
for the state? And the next thing that came about
was the realization that the industry of the
future, the main currency of that industry is
going to be knowledge as opposed to hard goods. So
if you take those two factors, and then the third
factor is the largest investment the state makes
is education. By far, you see, what we need to do in
order to help this state is to take advantage of the
investment they make in education to bring
knowledge-based industries, make it possible
for knowledge-based industries to be in Texas.
And the educational system's already here.
There's two or three great research universities
and many others. Is there a way to use that resource
and bring it to bear on the problems of the state to
make it a better place in the future? And that sort
of thinking went on here. And that's what we're
about. And I think that changed in the late 80s.
Right. But several reasons for that. It was the
realization that the oil was not forever. It was
the realization that the industry of the future
was going to be a different kind of animal. We were
competing in a different kind of way. It wasn't
that you would be next to an iron ore pit. That
wasn't important. Other things were going to be
important. And the key to it was the educational
system. And here we were sitting in an educational
system. We needed to mine that education system in
a way that was useful and productive, not only for
the educational system, but for the state. And
that's what we're trying to do. One question I've
asked everybody and everybody's pretty well
answered so far. What do you find is the difference
between high tech
and technology? Did you ask Dr. Porter that
question? Did he say high tech is the technology
you do in space? No. Is that what you said? That's
what I said jokingly. That's the tech you do in high
time. Yeah, right. We were quipped about that. No,
I don't know what high tech is. I think if anything
that we could say, well, one way to look at it is high
tech is not so much hardware as it is concept
oriented and knowledge oriented. It's not so much
a
new car or a new buildings, or it's more
things that are involved with intelligence,
artificial and human intelligence,
and a wristwatch that computes or communicates,
or somehow, I don't know. I can't really define it
very good. I don't have a good definition for it.
But I guess I have my own sort of feeling of what I
think is kind of high-tech. Do you think there's a
difference between pure scientific research and
technologies,
engineering? There's a difference in the people.
If you were doing this in the College of Science,
you would not be hearing the words or the
perspective that you're getting.